miss Gail's five steps to slam poetry a
lesson of transformation step one write
it all down
take one memory explore it like a new
land
the visiting poet tells the class don't
leave anything out
Tyler sits in this high school workshop
dizzy with where to start
memories wander in and out of his heart
like vagrant searching for home he bends
to his desk he writes the snow goes
black when the moon turns its eyes away
all paper is yellow all letters spell
eviction no mames lies our footsteps too
many to count
making excuses on blacks no I paid the
rent this is your room forever baby I
love you but she wouldn't even look at
me
step 2 read out loud as he writes his
lips try on words then toss them out
like bad tenants he pushes his desk back
stands aah
Jocelyn's rice pudding was sweet but
that's not what I want to write have you
ever been so cold your hair becomes an
icicle
your little sisters fear of the dark
freezes on her lips like she's kissed
her ice tray how hungry have you been
step 3 cut the fat abandon extra words
his pen becomes a machete slashing and
thins becauses step 4 read out loud
again the 11th grade boy makes sure step
threes cuts weren't too deep step 5
add flavor juice power movement emotion
vanilla flavoring is the secret to my
aunts pudding I kick out a few raisins
but leave one or two life needs some
bitter to man up to sweet
his hands reach out like shelves to hold
our disbelief is this Tyler speaking the
one who keeps his eyes on the floor like
they're carrying something heavy voice
rattles windows I'm free now body
Quivers with the pulse of each word the
sun's joy melts no fingers trace the
curve of his jaw my odds face was warm
as a water heater when she led us in
that night our boy is done his
transformation complete
step one write it all down step two read
out loud step three cut the fat step
four read out loud Step five add flavor
Tyler's first poem takes residence in
his heart he flings his arms wide like
an open door welcome home